# Master's Thesis: Enhancing Branch and Bound Techniques by Quantum Approximate Optimization

This repository holds the code I have developed for my Master's thesis. The goal was to construct a classical Branch and Bound (B&B) framework for the Knapsack Problem (KP), which could then be extended by a QAOA, yielding a hybrid quantum-classical B&B algorithm (HQCBB). More specifically, a QAOA tackling the Knapsack Problem as a hardconstrained combinatorial optimization problem may be used as a lower bound to the optimal solution of the KP instance at hand, as it is proven to converge to it from below in the limit where the circuit depth approaches infinity. The challenge in designing a Hardconstraint QAOA is to come up with a proper mixer that preserves feasibility and, even further, explores the feasible subspace. Bärtschi & Eidenbenz (2020) proposed a strategy that shifts the complexity of finding a mixer to the preparation of the intial state, which fully determines the mixer. In a recently published quantum algorithm for the Knapsack Problem by Wilkening et al. (2023), a _Quantum Tree Generation (QTG)_ is used to create a superposition of all feasible KP states. This procedure is hence suitable to be extracted and employed as a state preparation inducing a QAOA mixer. This can be found, together with the classical parameter optimization, in `qaoa.py`. A general definition of the Knapsack Problem, accompanied by a generator for random KP instances, is given in `knapsack_problem.py`. The full B&B logic is located in `branch_and_bound.py`, particularly incorporating a simple binary branching strategy, two methods (node selection and backtracking) making the search heuristic, as well as pruning of subproblems via a classical upper and a quantum-classical lower bound. The concrete implementation of the classical components is done in `classical_ingredients.py`. As the name suggests, the folder `simulation` contains everything that is related to the simulations of the QAOA alone or the full HQCBB. More specifically, we investigate individual solution probabilities and approximation ratios for the QTG-induced QAOA. The full HQCBB is evaluated in terms of lower bound comparisons (local measure) and numbers of nodes that are necessary to explore in order to find the optimal solution (global measure). Each of these four simulation parts also holds the obtained results, visualized via bar plots and line plots. The generated random KP instances, on which the simulations are based, are stored in the folder `kp_instances_data` (of which a backup exists to avoid accidential overwritings), sorted according to the simulation part they correspond to. 

What is missing in this repository is an extensive testing. That got cut short due to time limitations. Also, most of the functions lack documentation, which is why I hope that this summary contributes to facilitate the understanding of the code. If you have any questions, feel free to drop me an e-mail at p.christiansen@stud.uni-hannover.de - I would be glad to help out.
